content/en/docs/account-id.md, before:

---
title: Finding Account IDs
slug: account-id
top_graphic: 1
date: 2016-08-10
lastmod: 2019-07-30
show_lastmod: 1
---


When reporting issues it can be useful to provide your Let's Encrypt account ID.
Most of the time, the process of creating an account is handled automatically by
the ACME client software you use to talk to Let's Encrypt, and you may have
multiple accounts configured if you run ACME clients on multiple servers.

Your account ID is a URL of the form
`https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/acme/acct/12345678`.

If you're using Certbot, you can find your account ID by looking at the "uri"
field in
`/etc/letsencrypt/accounts/acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory/*/regr.json`.

If you're using another ACME client, the instructions will be client-dependent.
Check your logs for URLs of the form described above. If your ACME client does
not record the account ID, you can retrieve it by submitting a new registration
request with the same key. See the [ACME spec for more
details](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8555#section-7.3).
You can also find the numeric form of your ID in the Boulder-Requester header in
the response to each POST your ACME client makes.

Commit message:

Mention Certbot `show_account` subcommand on Account ID page (#1373)

content/en/docs/account-id.md, after:

---
title: Finding Account IDs
slug: account-id
top_graphic: 1
date: 2016-08-10
lastmod: 2021-12-27
show_lastmod: 1
---


When reporting issues it can be useful to provide your Let's Encrypt account ID.
Most of the time, the process of creating an account is handled automatically by
the ACME client software you use to talk to Let's Encrypt, and you may have
multiple accounts configured if you run ACME clients on multiple servers.

Your account ID is a URL of the form
`https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/acme/acct/12345678`.

If you're using [Certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/) and you're running version
1.23.0 or newer, you can find your account ID by running the `certbot show_account`
subcommand. If your Certbot is older than 1.23.0, then you can find the account ID
by looking at the "uri" field in
`/etc/letsencrypt/accounts/acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory/*/regr.json`.

If you're using another ACME client, the instructions will be client-dependent.
Check your logs for URLs of the form described above. If your ACME client does
not record the account ID, you can retrieve it by submitting a new registration
request with the same key. See the [ACME spec for more
details](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8555#section-7.3).
You can also find the numeric form of your ID in the Boulder-Requester header in
the response to each POST your ACME client makes.
