content/en/docs/cert-compat.md, before:

---
title: Certificate Compatibility
slug: certificate-compatibility
top_graphic: 1
date: 2016-12-05
lastmod: 2016-12-05
---

{{< lastmod >}}

Let's Encrypt aims to be compatible with as much software as possible without compromising security. The main determining factor for whether a platform can validate Let's Encrypt certificates is whether that platform includes IdenTrust's DST Root X3 certificate in its trust store. A secondary factor is whether the platform supports modern [SHA-2](https://konklone.com/post/why-google-is-hurrying-the-web-to-kill-sha-1) certificates, since all Let's Encrypt certificates use SHA-2.

If your certificate validates on some of the "Known Compatible" platforms but not others, the problem may be a web server misconfiguration, most likely failure to provide the correct certificate chain. Test your site with [SSL Labs' Server Test](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/). If that doesn't identify the problem, ask for help in our [Community Forums](https://community.letsencrypt.org/).

You may want to visit [this particular community forum discussion](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/which-browsers-and-operating-systems-support-lets-encrypt/) for more information about compatibility.

# Known Compatible

* Mozilla Firefox >= v2.0
* Google Chrome
* Internet Explorer on Windows XP SP3 and higher
* Microsoft Edge
* Android OS >= v2.3.6
* Safari >= v4.0 on macOS
* Safari on iOS >= v3.1
* Debian Linux >= v6
* Ubuntu Linux >= v12.04
* NSS Library >= v3.11.9
* Amazon FireOS (Silk Browser)
* Cyanogen > v10
* Jolla Sailfish OS > v1.1.2.16
* Kindle > v3.4.1
* Java 7 >= 7u111
* Java 8 >= 8u101
* Blackberry >= 10.3.3
* PS4 game console with firmware >= 5.00

# Known Incompatible

* Blackberry < v10.3.3
* Android < v2.3.6
* Nintendo 3DS
* Windows XP prior to SP3
  * cannot handle SHA-2 signed certificates
* Java 7 < 7u111
* Java 8 < 8u101
* Windows Live Mail (2012 mail client, not webmail)
  * cannot handle certificates without a CRL
* PS3 game console
* PS4 game console with firmware < 5.00

Commit message:

Cert-compat: explain common issues with older platforms (#347)
Windows XP and some other older platforms don't support modern TLS versions or ciphersuites, which could cause websites to be incompatible even though Let's Encrypt certificates are compatible.

Prompted by https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/the-certificate-generated-with-certbot-does-not-work-on-windows-xp/67232 and earliier threads.

content/en/docs/cert-compat.md, after:

---
title: Certificate Compatibility
slug: certificate-compatibility
top_graphic: 1
date: 2016-12-05
lastmod: 2016-12-05
---

{{< lastmod >}}

Let's Encrypt aims to be compatible with as much software as possible without compromising security. The main determining factor for whether a platform can validate Let's Encrypt certificates is whether that platform includes IdenTrust's DST Root X3 certificate in its trust store. A secondary factor is whether the platform supports modern [SHA-2](https://konklone.com/post/why-google-is-hurrying-the-web-to-kill-sha-1) certificates, since all Let's Encrypt certificates use SHA-2.

If your certificate validates on some of the "Known Compatible" platforms but not others, the problem may be a web server misconfiguration. If you're having an issue with modern platforms, the most common cause is failure to provide the correct certificate chain. If you're having an issue with older platforms like Windows XP, the most common causes are failure to configure a ciphersuite or TLS version that is supported on the platform or that the platform lacks support for Server Name Indication (SNI). Test your site with [SSL Labs' Server Test](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/). If that doesn't identify the problem, ask for help in our [Community Forums](https://community.letsencrypt.org/).

You may want to visit [this particular community forum discussion](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/which-browsers-and-operating-systems-support-lets-encrypt/) for more information about compatibility.

# Known Compatible

* Mozilla Firefox >= v2.0
* Google Chrome
* Internet Explorer on Windows XP SP3 and higher
* Microsoft Edge
* Android OS >= v2.3.6
* Safari >= v4.0 on macOS
* Safari on iOS >= v3.1
* Debian Linux >= v6
* Ubuntu Linux >= v12.04
* NSS Library >= v3.11.9
* Amazon FireOS (Silk Browser)
* Cyanogen > v10
* Jolla Sailfish OS > v1.1.2.16
* Kindle > v3.4.1
* Java 7 >= 7u111
* Java 8 >= 8u101
* Blackberry >= 10.3.3
* PS4 game console with firmware >= 5.00

# Known Incompatible

* Blackberry < v10.3.3
* Android < v2.3.6
* Nintendo 3DS
* Windows XP prior to SP3
  * cannot handle SHA-2 signed certificates
* Java 7 < 7u111
* Java 8 < 8u101
* Windows Live Mail (2012 mail client, not webmail)
  * cannot handle certificates without a CRL
* PS3 game console
* PS4 game console with firmware < 5.00
