content/en/docs/dst-root-ca-x3-expiration-september-2021.md, before:

---
title: DST Root CA X3 Expiration (September 2021)
slug: dst-root-ca-x3-expiration-september-2021
top_graphic: 1
lastmod: 2021-09-30
menu:
  main:
    weight: 30
    parent: about
show_lastmod: 1
---

> **Update September 30, 2021**
> As planned, the DST Root CA X3 cross-sign has expired, and we're now using our own ISRG Root X1 for trust on almost all devices. For more details about the plan, keep reading!
> We have also updated our Production Chain Changes thread on our community forum - [our team and community are here and ready to help](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/production-chain-changes/150739/4) with any questions you may have about this expiration.

On September 30 2021, there will be a small change in how older browsers and devices
trust Let's Encrypt certificates. If you run a typical website, you won't notice
a difference - the vast majority of your visitors will still accept your Let's
Encrypt certificate. If you provide an API or have to support IoT devices, you
might have to pay a little more attention to the change.

Let's Encrypt has a "[root certificate]" called [ISRG Root X1]. Modern browsers and
devices trust the Let's Encrypt certificate installed on your website because
they include ISRG Root X1 in their list of root certificates. To make sure the
certificates we issue are trusted on older devices, we also have a
"cross-signature" from an older root certificate: DST Root CA X3.

When we got started, that older root certificate (DST Root CA X3) helped us get
off the ground and be trusted by almost every device immediately. The newer root
certificate (ISRG Root X1) is now widely trusted too - but some older devices
won't ever trust it because they don't get software updates (for example, an
iPhone 4 or an HTC Dream). [Click here for a list of which platforms trust ISRG
Root X1][compatibility].

DST Root CA X3 will expire on September 30, 2021. That means those older devices
that don't trust ISRG Root X1 will start getting certificate warnings when
visiting sites that use Let's Encrypt certificates. There's one important
exception: older Android devices that don't trust ISRG Root X1 will continue to
work with Let's Encrypt, [thanks to a special cross-sign from DST Root CA X3][cross-sign]
that extends past that root's expiration. This exception only works for Android.

What should you do? For most people, nothing at all! We've set up our
certificate issuance so your web site will do the right thing in most cases,
favoring broad compatibility. If you provide an API or have to support IoT
devices, you'll need to make sure of two things: (1) all clients of your API
must trust ISRG Root X1 (not just DST Root CA X3), and (2) if clients of your
API are using OpenSSL, [they must use version 1.1.0 or later][openssl]. In OpenSSL
1.0.x, a quirk in certificate verification means that even clients that trust
ISRG Root X1 will fail when presented with the Android-compatible certificate
chain we are recommending by default.

If you want additional information about our ongoing production chain changes,
[please check out this thread in our community][production].

If you have any questions about the upcoming expiration,
[please post to this thread on our forum.][forum]

[root certificate]: /docs/glossary/#def-root
[ISRG Root X1]: /certificates/
[cross-sign]: /2020/12/21/extending-android-compatibility.html
[openssl]: https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/openssl-client-compatibility-changes-for-let-s-encrypt-certificates/143816
[forum]: https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/help-thread-for-dst-root-ca-x3-expiration-september-2021/149190
[compatibility]: /docs/cert-compat/
[production]: https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/production-chain-changes/150739

Commit message:

Improve visibility of documentation re: DST cross-sign expiration (#1631)
Fixes https://github.com/letsencrypt/website/issues/1627

content/en/docs/dst-root-ca-x3-expiration-september-2021.md, after:

---
title: DST Root CA X3 Expiration (September 2021)
slug: dst-root-ca-x3-expiration-september-2021
top_graphic: 1
lastmod: 2024-02-05
show_lastmod: 1
---

> **Update Feb 05, 2024**
> It's been two years, and the Android compatibility cross-sign mentioned below
> is close to expiring. See [our recent blog
> post](https://letsencrypt.org/2023/07/10/cross-sign-expiration) for a detailed
> explanation of the changes coming over the course of 2024.

> **Update September 30, 2021**
> As planned, the DST Root CA X3 cross-sign has expired, and we're now using our own ISRG Root X1 for trust on almost all devices. For more details about the plan, keep reading!
> We have also updated our Production Chain Changes thread on our community forum - [our team and community are here and ready to help](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/production-chain-changes/150739/4) with any questions you may have about this expiration.

On September 30 2021, there will be a small change in how older browsers and devices
trust Let's Encrypt certificates. If you run a typical website, you won't notice
a difference - the vast majority of your visitors will still accept your Let's
Encrypt certificate. If you provide an API or have to support IoT devices, you
might have to pay a little more attention to the change.

Let's Encrypt has a "[root certificate]" called [ISRG Root X1]. Modern browsers and
devices trust the Let's Encrypt certificate installed on your website because
they include ISRG Root X1 in their list of root certificates. To make sure the
certificates we issue are trusted on older devices, we also have a
"cross-signature" from an older root certificate: DST Root CA X3.

When we got started, that older root certificate (DST Root CA X3) helped us get
off the ground and be trusted by almost every device immediately. The newer root
certificate (ISRG Root X1) is now widely trusted too - but some older devices
won't ever trust it because they don't get software updates (for example, an
iPhone 4 or an HTC Dream). [Click here for a list of which platforms trust ISRG
Root X1][compatibility].

DST Root CA X3 will expire on September 30, 2021. That means those older devices
that don't trust ISRG Root X1 will start getting certificate warnings when
visiting sites that use Let's Encrypt certificates. There's one important
exception: older Android devices that don't trust ISRG Root X1 will continue to
work with Let's Encrypt, [thanks to a special cross-sign from DST Root CA X3][cross-sign]
that extends past that root's expiration. This exception only works for Android.

What should you do? For most people, nothing at all! We've set up our
certificate issuance so your web site will do the right thing in most cases,
favoring broad compatibility. If you provide an API or have to support IoT
devices, you'll need to make sure of two things: (1) all clients of your API
must trust ISRG Root X1 (not just DST Root CA X3), and (2) if clients of your
API are using OpenSSL, [they must use version 1.1.0 or later][openssl]. In OpenSSL
1.0.x, a quirk in certificate verification means that even clients that trust
ISRG Root X1 will fail when presented with the Android-compatible certificate
chain we are recommending by default.

If you want additional information about our ongoing production chain changes,
[please check out this thread in our community][production].

If you have any questions about the upcoming expiration,
[please post to this thread on our forum.][forum]

[root certificate]: /docs/glossary/#def-root
[ISRG Root X1]: /certificates/
[cross-sign]: /2020/12/21/extending-android-compatibility.html
[openssl]: https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/openssl-client-compatibility-changes-for-let-s-encrypt-certificates/143816
[forum]: https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/help-thread-for-dst-root-ca-x3-expiration-september-2021/149190
[compatibility]: /docs/cert-compat/
[production]: https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/production-chain-changes/150739
