content/en/about.md, before:

---
title: About Let's Encrypt
linkTitle: Let's Encrypt
slug: about
top_graphic: 1
lastmod: 2019-01-28
menu:
  main:
    weight: 10
    parent: about
---

Let's Encrypt is a free, automated, and open certificate authority (CA), run for the public's benefit. It is a service provided by the [Internet Security Research Group (ISRG)](https://www.abetterinternet.org/).

We give people the digital certificates they need in order to enable HTTPS (SSL/TLS) for websites, for free, in the most user-friendly way we can. We do this because we want to create a more secure and privacy-respecting Web.

The key principles behind Let's Encrypt are:

* <strong>Free:</strong> Anyone who owns a domain name can use Let's Encrypt to obtain a trusted certificate
      at zero cost.
* <strong>Automatic:</strong> Software running on a web server can interact with Let's Encrypt to painlessly obtain a certificate, securely configure it for use, and automatically take care of renewal.
* <strong>Secure:</strong> Let's Encrypt will serve as a platform for advancing TLS security best practices, both on the CA side and by helping site operators properly secure their servers.
* <strong>Transparent:</strong> All certificates issued or revoked will be publicly recorded and available for anyone to inspect.
* <strong>Open:</strong> The automatic issuance and renewal protocol will be published as an open standard that others can adopt.
* <strong>Cooperative:</strong> Much like the underlying Internet protocols themselves, Let's Encrypt is a joint effort to benefit the community, beyond the control of any one organization.

We have a page with more detailed information about [how the Let's Encrypt CA works]({{< relref "/how-it-works.md" >}}).

Commit message:

Add 2019 annual report to website.

content/en/about.md, after:

---
title: About Let's Encrypt
linkTitle: Let's Encrypt
slug: about
top_graphic: 1
lastmod: 2019-01-28
menu:
  main:
    weight: 10
    parent: about
---

Let's Encrypt is a free, automated, and open certificate authority (CA), run for the public's benefit. It is a service provided by the [Internet Security Research Group (ISRG)](https://www.abetterinternet.org/).

We give people the digital certificates they need in order to enable HTTPS (SSL/TLS) for websites, for free, in the most user-friendly way we can. We do this because we want to create a more secure and privacy-respecting Web.

You can read about our most recent year in review by [downloading our annual report](/documents/2019-ISRG-Annual-Report-Desktop.pdf).

The key principles behind Let's Encrypt are:

* <strong>Free:</strong> Anyone who owns a domain name can use Let's Encrypt to obtain a trusted certificate
      at zero cost.
* <strong>Automatic:</strong> Software running on a web server can interact with Let's Encrypt to painlessly obtain a certificate, securely configure it for use, and automatically take care of renewal.
* <strong>Secure:</strong> Let's Encrypt will serve as a platform for advancing TLS security best practices, both on the CA side and by helping site operators properly secure their servers.
* <strong>Transparent:</strong> All certificates issued or revoked will be publicly recorded and available for anyone to inspect.
* <strong>Open:</strong> The automatic issuance and renewal protocol will be published as an open standard that others can adopt.
* <strong>Cooperative:</strong> Much like the underlying Internet protocols themselves, Let's Encrypt is a joint effort to benefit the community, beyond the control of any one organization.

We have a page with more detailed information about [how the Let's Encrypt CA works]({{< relref "/how-it-works.md" >}}).
