content/en/contact.md, before:

---
title: Contact
slug: contact
top_graphic: 1
lastmod: 2019-03-26
menu:
  main:
    weight: 90
    parent: about
---

## Support

If you have questions about how to use Let's Encrypt, please ask on [Let's Encrypt Community Support](https://community.letsencrypt.org/).

## Press Inquiries

Email: [press@letsencrypt.org](mailto:press@letsencrypt.org)

## Sponsorship

Email: [sponsor@letsencrypt.org](mailto:sponsor@letsencrypt.org)

## Mailing Lists

For information about various technical mailing lists, please visit our [Get Involved]({{< ref "/getinvolved.md" >}}) page.

To sign up for our newsletter, [click here.](https://letsencrypt.us14.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=dc00f5bdab7179027a494d4e8&id=ec773c6bad)

## Security

Please do not write to this address unless your message concerns a security issue with Let's Encrypt.

Email: [security@letsencrypt.org](mailto:security@letsencrypt.org)

### Encrypted Communication

To communicate securely with the Security Team, please utilize our GPG key. It consists of several subkeys signed by an offline master key. Any recent version of GnuPG will support this kind of hybrid key. The current key structure is:

```
pub   rsa4096 2015-11-24 [CE] [expires: 2023-09-18]
      0148 3B31 D8F9 DBA2 5D41  4DAA 718E 9F6D 10EC 230B
uid           [ultimate] ISRG Security Team (letsencrypt.org) <security@letsencrypt.org>
sub   rsa4096 2015-11-24 [E] [expires: 2019-09-19]
sub   rsa4096 2015-11-24 [A] [expires: 2019-09-19]
sub   rsa4096 2015-11-24 [S] [expires: 2019-09-19]
```

You can download the [GPG Public Key](/security_letsencrypt.org-publickey.asc) here, or utilize your favorite key server.

The key fingerprint must match `0148 3B31 D8F9 DBA2 5D41  4DAA 718E 9F6D 10EC 230B`.

Commit message:

Make "no email support" messaging stronger.

content/en/contact.md, after:

---
title: Contact
slug: contact
top_graphic: 1
lastmod: 2019-03-26
menu:
  main:
    weight: 90
    parent: about
---

**We do not provide support via email. If you have a support question please use our [community forums](https://community.letsencrypt.org). The below email addresses are only for the specific topics described.**

## Press Inquiries

Email: [press@letsencrypt.org](mailto:press@letsencrypt.org)

## Sponsorship

Email: [sponsor@letsencrypt.org](mailto:sponsor@letsencrypt.org)

## Mailing Lists

For information about various technical mailing lists, please visit our [Get Involved]({{< ref "/getinvolved.md" >}}) page.

To sign up for our newsletter, [click here.](https://letsencrypt.us14.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=dc00f5bdab7179027a494d4e8&id=ec773c6bad)

## Security

**Please do not write to this address unless your message concerns a security issue with Let's Encrypt.**

Email: [security@letsencrypt.org](mailto:security@letsencrypt.org)

### Encrypted Communication

To communicate securely with the Security Team, please utilize our GPG key. It consists of several subkeys signed by an offline master key. Any recent version of GnuPG will support this kind of hybrid key. The current key structure is:

```
pub   rsa4096 2015-11-24 [CE] [expires: 2023-09-18]
      0148 3B31 D8F9 DBA2 5D41  4DAA 718E 9F6D 10EC 230B
uid           [ultimate] ISRG Security Team (letsencrypt.org) <security@letsencrypt.org>
sub   rsa4096 2015-11-24 [E] [expires: 2019-09-19]
sub   rsa4096 2015-11-24 [A] [expires: 2019-09-19]
sub   rsa4096 2015-11-24 [S] [expires: 2019-09-19]
```

You can download the [GPG Public Key](/security_letsencrypt.org-publickey.asc) here, or utilize your favorite key server.

The key fingerprint must match `0148 3B31 D8F9 DBA2 5D41  4DAA 718E 9F6D 10EC 230B`.
